# 02 Reading Notes

## *All Notes Taken From Reading Materials*

## React: Component Lifecycle Events

1. Based off the diagram, what happens first, the ‘render’ or the ‘componentDidMount’?

>>>>> **render** will happen first when both *Mounting* & *Updating*.

2. What is the very first thing to happen in the lifecycle of React?

>>>>> **Mounting** is the first phase of the component lifecycle. And the **Constructor** for a React component is called even before it is mounted. 

3. Put the following things in the order that they happen: componentDidMount, render, constructor, componentWillUnmount, React Updates

>>>>> Constructor --> render --> componentDidMount --> react Updates --> componentWillUnmount

4. What does componentDidMount do?

>>>>> "This method is invoked immediately after a component is mounted. If you need to load anything using a network request or initialize the DOM, it should go here. This method is a good place to set up any subscriptions. If you do that, don’t forget to unsubscribe in componentWillUnmount().

setState() can be called here, but it should be used sparingly, because it will cause a rerender, which can lead to perfomance issues.

Here we use componentDidMount() to connect to the YouTube API and get videos when the components is rendered."

### shouldComponentUpdate()
The default behavior in react is to rerender after every state change. Setting shouldComponentUpdate() to false allows you to prevent this from happening. This is in order to optimize performance. If you want to use this method, it may be better to use PureComponent instead, which performs a shallow comparison of props and state. If you do decide to use this method, be sure to check the previous props and state with the current props and state. If shouldComponentUpdate() returns false, then UNSAFE_componentWillUpdate(), render(), and componentDidUpdate() will not be invoked.