# 06 Reading Notes

## *All Notes Taken From Reading Materials*

## An Introduction to Node.js on sitepoint.com

1. What is node.js?

  * Node.js® is a JavaScript runtime built on Chrome’s V8 JavaScript engine.
  * Node.js is an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google’s V8 JavaScript engine and libuv library.

2. In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?

  - It's living document that other people contribute to in order to better run programs like google chrome. I guess it's also an extension to other browsers and our local comps.

3. What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?

  * This means that Node.js is a program we can use to execute JavaScript on our computers.

4. What is npm?

  * npm is two things: first and foremost, it is an online repository for the publishing of open-source Node.js projects; second, it is a command-line utility for interacting with said repository that aids in package installation, version management, and dependency management. - https://nodejs.org/en/knowledge/getting-started/npm/what-is-npm/

5. What version of node are you running on your machine?

  * v17.6.0

6. What version of npm are you running on your machine?

  * v16.13.2/lib

7. What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?

  * npx install < name >

8. What is node used for?

  * designed to automate the process of developing a modern JavaScript application.

## 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

1. What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?

  * Greater efficiency
  * Engaged collaboration
  * Learning from fellow students
  * Social skills 
  * Job interview readiness
  * Work environment readiness

2. In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?

  * Learning from fellow students... I've always been a slower one to get tech concepts and fellow students are sometimes better at communicating concepts and making it more human.

3. How does pair programming work?

  * Pair programming commonly involves two roles: the Driver and the Navigator. The Driver is the programmer who is typing and the only one whose hands are on the keyboard. Handling the “mechanics” of coding, the Driver manages the text editor, switching files, version control, and—of course writing—code. The Navigator uses their words to guide the Driver but does not provide any direct input to the computer. The Navigator thinks about the big picture, what comes next, how an algorithm might be converted in to code, while scanning for typos or bugs. The Navigator might also utilize their computer as a second screen to look up solutions and documentation, but should not be writing any code.



