# 07 Reading Notes

## *All Notes Taken From Reading Materials*

## What Google Learned From Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team 

* *I have this in my 201 ReadingNotes*

## How I explained REST to my brother

1. Who is Roy Fielding?
  * He helped write the first web servers, that sent documents across the internet

2. Why don’t the techniques that we use today work well when we need to be able to talk to all of the machines in the world?
  * Because they weren't designed to be used like that. When Fielding and his colleagues started building the web, being able to talk to any machine anywhere in the world was a primary concern. But most of the techniques developers later used to get computers to talk to each other didn't have those requirements. You just needed to talk to a small group of machines.

3. What is the HTTP protocol that Fielding and his friends created?
  * HTTP—this protocol Fielding and his friends created—is all about applying verbs to nouns. For instance, when you go to a web page, the browser does an HTTP GET on the URL you typed in and back comes a web page.

4. What does a GET do?
  * grabs information from a database/library/api

5. What does a POST do?
  * If one system needs to add something to another system, it would use an HTTP verb of POST.

6. What does PUT do?
  * If a system wants to replace something in another system, it uses an HTTP verb of PUT,

7. What does PATCH do?
  *to do a partial update, it'll hopefully use PATCH.

## API KEYS

GEO- Did you get your API key? YES
WEATHER- Did you get your API key? YES
MOVIE- Did you get your API key? YES
YELP- Did you get your API key? YES



