# 10 Reading Notes

## *All Notes Taken From Reading Materials*

## Understanding the JavaScript Call Stack

1.  What is a ‘call’?
  * the invocation of a function is to "call" the function

2.  How many ‘calls’ can happen at once?
  * one at a time

3.  What does LIFO mean?
  * LIFO stands for Last in First out, its a principle to temporarily store and manage function calls. The last function to be added to the stack will be the first one returned

4.  Draw an example of a call stack and the functions that would need to be invoked to generate that call stack.

  * push --> [ ] --> pop
      function firstFunction (){
      console.log("Hello from firstFunction");
    }
    function secondFunction () {
      firstFunction();
      console.log("The end from secondFunction");
    }
    secondFunction();

  * the output would show: 
    - Hello from firstFunction
    - The end from SecondFunction

6.  What causes a Stack Overflow?
  * A stack overflow occurs when there is a recursive function (a function that calls itself) without an exit point. which will throw an error eventually of "maximum call size exceeded"


## JavaScript error messages

1.  What is a ‘refrence error’?
  * thrown most often when you try to use a variable that hasn't been declared yet

2.  What is a ‘syntax error’?
  * occurs when you have something that can't be parsed in terms of syntax, like missing a semicolon;

3.  What is a ‘range error’?
  * when trying to reference something like an empty array by it's length (or an array with length less than what you're trying to reference by)

4.  What is a ‘tyep error’?
  * when the type of data you're using is incompatible with what you're trying to use it with

5.  What is a breakpoint?
  * breakpoint is used in the console to put a pause on the code so you can see exactly whats happening in that moment

6.  What does the word ‘debugger’ do in your code?
  * debugger is a way you can achieve the breakpoint by inputting it into your code
