# 12 Reading Notes

## *All Notes Taken From Reading Materials*

## Status Codes Based On REST Methods

1. In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:

    **100’s** = Informational status codes, tell a client that the header part of the request has been received
    **200’s** = Success codes, tell the client the request was accepted.
    **300’s** = Redirection codes: tell the client that the resource they're requesting isn't available
    **400’s** = Client error codes, means the client sent an invalid request
    **500’s** = Server error codes, means the server is overwhelmed or unreachable

2. What is a status code 202?
  * Asynchronous processing of a request (met all validation requirements)

3. What is a status code 308?
  * Permanent redirect tells the client to use another URL to access the resource

4. What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?
  * 204: no content for updates that don't return data to the client

5. What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?
  * 410 gone: we know the resource existed in the past but it got deleted or somehow moved.

6. What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?
  * 403 Forbidden: client has authorized or doesn't need to authorize itself, still has no permissions to access the resource


## Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB - Quick - First 20 minutes

1. Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?
  * It's connecting to the mongoDB through our local server. once it's deployed you'll want to use something that isn't the localhost

2. What is middleware?
  * code thats run when the server gets a request but before it gets passed to the route

3. What does app.use(express.json()) do?
  * express.json lets our server accept json as a body instead of the post element or get element

4. What does the /:id mean in a route?
  * :id is a parameter which we can access whatever they pass in as a parameter

5. What is the difference between PUT and PATCH?
  * Patch only updates what the user passes us, put updates all the info all at once instead of just the info that's passed

6. How do you make a default value in a schema?
  * within the object you pass default as one of the keys and whatever you want the default to be as the value

7. What does a 500 error status code mean?
  * 500 error status means that something went wrong with our server and that it's not on the users side

8. What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?
  * 200 means that everything is functioning as intended, 201 means that something was created successfully

